## I. Overview

### 1.1 Introduction
This directory provides a set of scripts for building images. The following types of images are supported:
- Non-Secure image
- Secure images
Before building, configuration file is needed. The template of the configuration file can be generated by the script.

### 1.2 Scope
The secure boot solution supports signature. Therefore, the script provides the single-signature image creation function for device manufacturers (OEM).

|    User     |             Operation            |
|-------------|----------------------------------|
| OEM         | build single-signed images       |

Dual signatures are optional based on demands.

### 1.3 Secure Boot Feature
- There are two security modes: Non-Secure and Secure.
- There are two types of start flows: Non-TEE and TEE. Their startup sequence is as follows:

|  Start Flow  |          Startup Sequence               |
|--------------|-----------------------------------------|
|   Non-TEE    |  GSL -> U-Boot -> Linux          |
|     TEE      |  GSL -> U-Boot -> TEE-OS -> Linux |

- Images in different modes take the following characteristics:

| Security Mode  | Start Flow |         Target Image          | Sign? | Encrypt? | Support OP-TEE? |
|----------------|------------|-------------------------------|-------|----------|-----------------|
|   Non-Secure   |  Non-TEE   | boot_image.bin                |  No   |    No    |      No         |
|   Secure       |  Non-TEE   | boot_image.bin                |  Yes  |    Yes   |      No         |
|   Secure       |  TEE       | boot_image.bin, tee_image.bin |  Yes  |    Yes   |      Yes        |

Note:
(1) "boot_image.bin" contains GSL and U-Boot codes.
(2) "tee_image.bin" contains OP-TEE codes.
(3) In secure mode, the GSL and U-Boot codes in boot_image.bin can be configured as non-encrypted.

### 1.4 Subsequent Contents
- Section 2 shows how to generate configuration files, built target images and double sign.
- Section 3 discribes the way to burn images;
- Section 4 shows directory structure and introducts functions of directories and files.


## II. Build Images

### 2.1 OEM Build Single-Signed Images

(1) Invoke the script to generate the configuration template "oem/oem_config.json".
```bash
$ python oem/oem_main.py gencfg oem/oem_config.json
```

(2) Referring to the chapter about "Script Configuration Description" of "User references of hi35xxVxx Secure Boot", replace the contents enclosed by "/*" and "*/" in "oem/oem_config.json".

(3) Invoke the script to build target images.
```bash
$ python oem/oem_main.py build oem/oem_config.json
```

(4) (Optional) OTP burning and mirroring check

```bash
# non-tee
$ python oem/oem_main.py check oem/otp_check.json image/oem/boot_image.bin


Check the script for verifying the boot image and teeos image, and check if the otp burn value and image match. Note that:
- oem/otp_check.json is the otp configuration file, which needs to be filled in according to the burn value of otp before use.
- image/oem/boot_image.bin is the boot image.

Pay attention to the error print in the log. The check tool does not stop immediately when an error occurs. It checks as many fields as possible.

Error notification can remind for the following errors:
- The OTP verification function is enabled, but an error occurs when the OTP verification function is enabled.
- The hash values of the root (ree, tee) public key area do not match.
- mrk1 OTP burning error, image decryption failed.
- dec_enable OTP is burnt, but the image is not encrypted.
## 3. Image Burning Description

(1) In the non-TEE boot scenario, burn the following content:

|   Image to Burn   |    Components     |
|-------------------|-------------------|
| boot_image.bin    | GSL and U-Boot    |
| uImage            | Linux             |
| RootFS Image      | Root File System  |


(2) In the TEE startup scenario, burn the following images:

|   Image to Burn   |    Components     |
|-------------------|-------------------|
| boot_image.bin    | GSL, U-Boot       |
| uImage            | Linux             |
| RootFS Image      | Root File System  |
| tee_image.bin     | OP-TEE            |


## 4. Directory Structure

The subdirectories of the top-level directory are as follows:
- common/
- oem/
- image/

### 4.1 common/
provide the following functions for generating images:
- util.py: binary data processing, converting endian, and file operation etc.
- check.py: number format check, file check etc.
- area_tool.py: protection key encryption and Root_Public_Key Area generation etc.
- config.py: configuration file generation and parsing, and configuration item error detection, etc.
- logger.py: recording logs.
- secure.py: signing, hashing, and encryption.
- clean.py: cleaning ouput files.

### 4.2 oem/
- oem_main.py
Script invoked by OEM users to make OEM areas and single-signed target images.
- oem_quick_build.py
Script for generating an non-secure "boot_image.bin".
- quick_build_config.json
Configuration file for generating an non-secure "boot_image.bin".
- tools/
Contains a collection of subscripts invoked by oem_main.py to generate configuration file templates, binary area files, and target images.
- tmp/
Directory of the intermediate generated files.

### 4.3 image/
Directory of target images.
